Okay. So now we'll go into something that's
no code and a bit more fun. Okay.
So how do we design a website? To
address this question, I think a better question
to ask is, why do we design our
websites? And in the center of any website
design is our users. So we design a
website to serve our users. We want our
website to be usable, and two core concepts
we consider as a website designer is UI
and UX. UI dictates the visuals of our
website, so it's the initial impression that our
users get when they come onto our website
and interact with it, and UX describes more
of the user flow as our user goes
from page to page as they interact with
their website. So any good a good UI
UX is a UI UX that delivers the
content and functionality of a website to its
users well, But this can take a lot
of different forms. There's no one good recipe
to make a good UI UX. So first,
we'll take a look into user interface or
UI. Your UI should be led by a
design guideline and this is specified by the
fonts used in your website, color palettes, the
spacing and layout, and maybe the reusable components
you use in your front end. So here's
the design guideline that was used for many
years on the WebLab website and our slides,
but recently we had a UI change on
our website so you might not see this
UI format on the website anymore. But as
you can see, in this UI guideline, specify
the fonts we use for different text throughout
our website and the color palette used throughout
the website. The fonts and colors that you
use can give off a very strong initial
impression of your website to your user. So
they're very important and you should definitely take
some time to think about what fonts and
colors you pick for your UI guidelines as
you design your websites. So first, we'll start
off with fonts. So if you're an MIT
student here, you have access to the Adobe
Creative Cloud and that allows you to use
Adobe Fonts. So this is the Adobe Fonts
website and you can add any family of
fonts to your web application or download any
fonts. And I really recommend it. It's a
great tool for finding fonts for your website.
You can filter by tags for like maybe
different fonts you're looking for. And so this
is the front page of Adobe Fonts and
as you can see, these different fonts give
off very different impressions already. So I just
like went ahead and wrote down maybe my
initial impressions of all these fonts and I'm
sure that you can you have different impressions
of these fonts as well. Like for Ivy
style, this is a very modern and clean
font and you might wanna use it for
a very modern user interface, whereas for mini
arcade or Limon, you might not wanna use
those for your body text of any website
and those might be more suited for a
heading of your website. So same thing for
colors. This is coolers.co and it allows you
to pick color palettes and edit color palettes
and similarly colors also give off a very
strong initial impression to the user. So I
also went through this and like wrote down
my initial impressions. You might have similar initial
impressions, maybe not. But yeah, that's one thing
to consider and yeah, here are some tools
you can use on coolers. You can pick
palettes and adjust the palettes. And another thing
to think about is color psychology, which you
can look through on your own. So the
impression that are so as we saw just
saw, UI can give off a very strong
impression to your users through fonts and colors,
but this depends largely on your user base.
So your users will change throughout time and
throughout culture. So yeah, UI trends change over
time and vary across culture. And now we'll
take a look at some examples of how
it does that. So here's the MIT website
in 02/2003 versus now. So as you can
see, the MIT website moved towards a more
minimal UI. We have a white background now
instead of the teal and green background. We
have more spacing for the words so that
there's a more minimal and empty layout and
we also replace text with icons where possible.
So overall, we see a trend towards a
more minimal UI in the past decade and
a great example of how we can see
this shift is by looking at how icons
change over time. So here's the trash can
icon and icons were originally introduced in 1973
when Xerox introduced the graphical user interface. So
in the very beginning, we have very primitive
and pixelated icons and as we move through
the .com bubble in the early late nineties
and early two thousands, we move towards skeuomorphic
icons which were originally designed to be very
user friendly because they mimic how these icons
might look in real life. But as we
move through the twenty tens and in the
past decade, we have more minimal and flat
UI icon layouts. But recently, I think we're
starting to move away from the minimal UI
as a lot of icons now have more
shadows and maybe some dimension added to them.
Here's a cool website you can check out
on your own time. So you might wanna
see how your favorite websites have changed over
time. This is the web design museum. So
as we just saw, we've been moving towards
a more minimal UI, but the minimal UI
isn't preferred by all users in today's digital
age. One example of this is how the
UI for web design varies between western culture
and sorry, western websites and maybe some what's
websites in East Asia. So this is the
Yahoo front page and on the left is
the English Yahoo web page that you can
log into in The US, and on the
right side is the Japanese Yahoo front page.
So something really interesting is that Japan's UI
more mimics how websites in the West look
during the .com bubble and it's a lot
more cluttered. There's no there's no central focal
point, and it's a lot less minimal. And
this is because across culture, users have different
needs. In the West, users prefer a more
simplistic layout with major focal points that summarize
the information, whereas in East Asia culture, there
are high context cultures that prefer more information
that tell them more about a website. So
this really brings home the point that you
really need to consider your user base when
you're designing a website. So how do we
make our own website's UI look good? As
we mentioned earlier, you should use UI guidelines
because this provides consistency throughout your website. So
here are some tools for you to pick
colors and typography, and another important point is
to reuse components. So one thing you can
use is the UI component library. Here's an
example of a component library that I like.
It's called Mantine and it allows you to
customize your components and reuse them throughout your
website. Another important part of making your UI
look good is responsive design and this means
that your website will look good on all
devices of different sizes. So one thing you
can do to check how your website looks
on screens of different sizes is by using
inspect element and changing the dimensions of the
website. So for example, here's the web lab
website. We can go to inspect and on
the on the right panel, on the top
left of the right panel, you can toggle
device toolbar and pick dimensions. So here's how
it might look on the iPhone SE. As
you can see, everything resizes and it still
looks good on a small screen. So this
is what we call responsive design. Stanley. Yeah.
Thank you, Stanley. So just a quick aside,
interactivity is also really cool. Interactivity is when
a user can interact with the website and
maybe when you hover around or click on
something, you'll get a response back. This is
cool and it makes your website like really
catch someone's eye, but there are drawbacks and
it could take away from usability or be
very resource heavy on your browser. So here's
an example of an interactive website designed by
our CodePres Stanley. So as you can see,
we went through a recent UI change and
with the new UI, it's a lot more
interactive like you can hover over things and
they'll change colors or opacity or you have
emoji, I don't know. Really cool. But yeah,
our old website didn't have any user interactivity
at all. So it's a lot more eye
catching on the new website. Another example of
interactivity is for HackMIT, we're working on three
JS website for our upcoming high school hackathon
blueprint. I don't know if you guys saw
that but oops. No, it's gone. But we
use a three d modeling apps to make
this cool room. Oh, why is it gone?
Oh, and allows the users to like play
around with the room and click on different
items in the room. And on the right,
it was just a cool profile page, portfolio
page that I found that where you can
interact with the different objects on the website.
Now we'll go to UX. Oh, okay. Hi.
I'm Annabel. Wait. I think you should stay
connected to yours for now. Okay. I'm gonna
talk about UX. I'm speed through it a
bit because I think Sophie covered a lot
of the really important points in her UI
section. But really quickly, basically, UX, we want
to consider things like how intuitive is navigation
gonna be for our users, what queues can
they use on the website, how visible are
the essential elements that we really wanna highlight
on our web page, and is the information
that we're presenting presented in, like, a logical
manner where it's organized in a way that
users can easily understand how things are flowing.
So let's take a really quick poll. Between
these two ketchup bottles one and two, which
one do you think better optimizes the UX
for users? You can do like one finger
for like one and two for two. Yeah.
I'm seeing like only twos. And this is
correct because basically, like you can see in
the old Heinz ketchup bottle design, it's really
unintuitive to use because like if you have
ketchup left over, you're like digging at the
bottle to get the like leftovers out. Whereas
here, you're able to squeeze it much easier,
so it very much prioritizes user experience. And
we want to do the same thing with
our web applications. So we want to use
symbols, concept, and colors that are commonly understood
across different cultures. Earlier, Sophie talked about how
UIs can differ between Western and East Asian,
like, applications. But we will icons are kind
of universal, and we can use, like, specific
symbols that most people can understand to mean
certain things. For example, you can look at
the icon bars here and see, like, the
home page is, like, represented with a house,
the search bar with the magnifying glass, etcetera.
And there's also a lot of colors, like
green is symbolizing, like, money usually or things
to deal with, like, wealth. So just more
on, like, the color psychology that Sophie kind
of mentioned earlier. So this is, like, a
good ideal ratio to have, like, 60% of
a main color, 30% of a secondary color,
and 10% of an accent color. There's also,
like, studies that show, like, which colors are
more preferred by, like, different genders. And also,
like, this website below, contrast checker, is really
good for making your website accessible because you
can check to make sure, like, you can
play with your website on grayscale to see
if it's still visible to, like, people who
are red green color blind. And also, like,
that you have enough contrast for people who
might have, like, issues with, like, vision that
it can see all the colors appropriately. So
I'm sure you guys are all familiar with
Discord's UI, but one of the ways that
Discord optimizes its UX as well is by
having the buttons really centralized and very easy
to click, so you know exactly, like, what
your options are upon entering the web page.
So this was Facebook's old UI, and as
you can see, it's like it was, like,
pretty unintuitive because the create an account boxes
are like super, super large, which is like
not great because like most of the time,
users are not gonna be creating a new
account. Instead, they're probably gonna be logging in,
and the login is like really tiny at
the top here. So that's like super unintuitive.
Right? So we want our information flow to
be really easy for users to digest and
understand. So this is why Facebook switched to
their new UI, is very clean, very nice.
We have the login front and center, and
then create new account below that, which is
much more intuitive. Right? Because we're probably not
going be creating a new account every single
time. Okay. Let's talk about wireframing now. So
this is super, super important for you guys'
projects. So if you're tuning out, you should
pay attention now. Basically, wireframing is just like
creating a super rough draft of your web
application. But it's very helpful because once you
hard code things, it's going to be more
difficult to change than if you have a
clear idea of what your application is going
to look like before you actually start the
coding. So you want to focus on the
overall structure of what your application is going
to look like and where key elements are
going to go. So you can see here
in this example, right, like, they have the
sidebar, they know what their nav bar is
going look like, and they know what sort
of tabs and pages they want on their
application. It can very drafty. It doesn't need
to be anything formal. Just think of it
as like a rough draft mock up of
what your website might look like. So to
make a wireframe, we have several different options.
We can use Figma, which is what we're
going be talking about later. You can also
honestly just make one on Google Slides, which
is nice because you can show transitions between
different pages. You can just draw it on
pen and paper or any other wireframe software
like Photoshop or Sketch. But we're going to
be using Figma because it has something that
can be really helpful called prototyping. So prototyping
is basically where you're just taking your wireframe
and you're bringing it to life. So you're
going to add interactions to your wireframe and
show which pages go where, which basically helps
improve your UI because you know exactly the
technical requirements needed to code it and where
users should be redirected to. It can be
very similar to the real thing. As you
can see, this is a very good prototype
that includes all the interactions, like scrolling and
redirects and things like that. So we're going
to be using Figma because it has really
good real time collaboration as well as options
for prototyping and adding interactions to your wireframe.
So it's very helpful for our purposes. And
also, I think it's very intuitive for beginners
to use. Okay. So we're gonna transition into
a Figma demo or mini workshop. Basically, I'm
gonna go over the steps of, like, where
key things are, and then you guys are
gonna get some time to play around with
it on your own. I know we don't
have, like, a lot of time, but hopefully,
I can speed run, and then you guys
will get some time to try it on
your own. I don't know. Yeah. You can
you can wait. There's still slides Okay. Cool.
Yeah. So basically, all remember oh, can we
see the slide? So yeah. Okay. We all
remember Catbook and what our this is like
if we were to create a wireframe for
Catbook. So we're gonna just go through that
really quickly. So you guys can follow along
with this step right now. Basically, you just
wanna make a Figma account at figma.com. And
I already have my account, as you can
see. But what we're gonna do is we
basically want once you get to the Figma
homepage, you wanna create, like, a new file.
You would just click, like, create file, create
new in this corner right here, and then
you're gonna select design file. I'm just gonna
use the Catbook wireframe that I already created.
But basically, upon creating a new file oh,
you can also open this cheat sheet for
reference if you need any help or get
stuck on things. It's weblab.is/figmacheat sheet. So just
some, like, quick basics. Everything in Figma is
kind of organized into layers. So you're gonna
see, like, on your sidebar that you have,
like, your different pages, and then your elements
are all gonna shown there. Canvas, this center
part is where all your stuff is gonna
be shown. Tools at the bottom. So this
is showing, like, Figma's old UI. So right
now, tools got relocated to the bottom. And
then on the right hand side, you have
options for selecting additional things, which we're gonna
go over later. But I think the tools
are pretty intuitive, so I'm not gonna go
over them in-depth. But basically, you have move
and scale options, you can make frames, You
can make shapes. You can draw with, like,
the pen and pencil. You can also do
text, and you can leave comments, which is
why it's really good for collaboration. Okay. So
the basics of Figma is everything is going
to be kinda contained in a frame. So
let's start by making a frame. We just
I'm just gonna click here, and then you
can see you can choose different, like, devices
for your frame. I'm just gonna choose, like,
desktop, and then let's do, MacBook Pro 14
inch. So here's our frame. A frame is
a container for elements, and so this is
going to house everything on kind of like
a page of our application. Right? So I'm
sorry. I did this. But frames are very,
very powerful. So if you guys have used
any image creation software before, even just like,
PowerPoint or Google Slides, I'm sure you probably,
like, are familiar with grouping items or objects.
But instead of grouping objects for Figma, I
would recommend you to just make a frame
every time you wanna group objects because it's
much more powerful than grouping objects because you
can size everything within the frame independently. You
can also have, like, cool overflow content options.
So that allows you to take advantage of,
like, clipping text. And overall, it's just better
for if you wanna apply, like, consistent styles
to everything. So let's make Catbook's homepage. So
for Catbook's navbar, I'm gonna do a frame
right here. And then you can change the
fill here. So you can see I'm changing
the color. The hex code is 2B73FF. So
this is, like, gonna be our nav bar
frame. Right? And then we can just drag
text inside of it. So text is at
the bottom on the tools here, and we
just wanna write, like, Catbook. Yeah. And then
you can, like, resize as you see fit
on the side, like how big you want
your text, what font, etcetera. I'm gonna go
over all of it right now, because I
think you guys can play around with it
on your own. But one of the key
things about Figma that's really nice is, let's
say we wanna make a profile page. Right?
Like, would we copy and paste our nav
bar over to our profile page? Like, thumbs
up if yes, thumbs down if no. Yeah.
I probably wouldn't be asking this question if
the answer was yes. Right? So we're gonna
reuse it instead as a component. So you
can see here, I have conveniently already done
it. But basically, if I go to, like,
the frame that we were just on and
I click on it, I can right click,
and then I can do create component, which
will essentially create a reusable instance of this
navbar element for me. So if I go
to my assets, I've already made, like, a
better looking navbar component here. So this is
the one that we'll be using. But basically,
you can, like, create components which are reusable
instances of stuff that you wanna reuse across
multiple pages, like your nav bar, for example.
So now, if we want to make a
profile page instead of, like, remaking our nav
bar or copying and pasting it, we can
go to assets, and then we can just,
like, insert instance here. And so we can
get, like, another nav bar, basically. Yeah. So
that's how we would reuse our components. And
then this step is pretty intuitive as well.
You're basically just copying and pasting images. You
can shape things by going here, and then
you can change, like, the radius. So this
how I made it, like, rounded. Yeah. You
can review the slides more on your own
time. But, basically, when you edit components, when
you edit the main instance, it's gonna change
all other